## Special Chapter on Indigenous Peoples

### Article 1 Right to Self-Determination

<ol start="1">
  <li><p>Reference to the Special Chapter on Indigenous Peoples of the Covenants Watch ICCPR Shadow Report, Paragraph 1 through 7 regarding the issue of the right to self-determination for Indigenous Peoples.</p></li>
</ol>

### Article 2

### International Cooperation and Development Assistance

<ol start="2">
  <li><p>Has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MOFA), in the course of engaging in its work on international cooperation and development assistance, contributed to any misunderstandings or even negative impacts with respect to the country's Indigenous populations? Moreover, when performing its diplomatic mission, has the Ministry, in a desire to exhibit the unique characteristics of Taiwan through displays of Indigenous culture, but actually misinterpreted those cultures and, to the contrary, perpetuated stereo-typical representations of Indigenous Peoples and even exacerbated their discrimination? For instance, in the Ministry's promotion of its young ambassadors program there have occurred over the years several cases where performance troupes, when interacting with host countries at international events for displays of Indigenous songs and dances or during celebratory activities for designated diplomatic holidays, have perpetrated numerous misrepresentations of the costume, dances or songs of specific group of Indigenous Peoples. Such instances create erroneous impressions and disseminate false information that causes harm to many of the country's Indigenous Peoples. MOFA should present a concrete policy that promotes better understanding and respect to Indigenous Peoples amongst its diplomatic staff and relevant international planners.</p></li>
</ol>

### Article 3, Article 26

### The Principal of Equality and Anti-Discrimination

<ol start="3">
  <li><p>Reference to the Special Chapter on Indigenous Peoples of the Covenants Watch ICCPR Shadow Report Paragraph 8 through 23 on the country's discrimination and discriminatory incidents as pertains to cultural hunting rights, cultural fishing and harvesting rights; rights for use of advanced technologies; and right to self-determination.</p></li>
</ol>

### Employment Discrimination Faced by Urbanized Indigenous Peoples

<ol start="4">
  <li><p>According to statistics from the official website of the Council of Indigenous Peoples, currently 45.7% of Taiwan's Indigenous population resides in urban areas, meaning nearly half of the population has left their homelands to dwell in non-traditional locales. Most of them have left due to poor employment prospects in their traditional homelands. Most of the Indigenous areas are lack of sufficient policy guidance for industry, preventing Indigenous Peoples from obtaining beneficial development under the limitations of the law and natural resource access; thereby resulting in a flight to urbanized areas to pursue a livelihood.</p></li>

  <li><p>After migrating to the cities, except for a select few who obtain public sector employment in the military, civil service, teaching, or medical services among others, most, however, remain unable to find stable career-oriented employment due to ethnic stereo-types and discriminatory job practices that effect this vulnerable population. Paragraph 21 of the core consensus document for the second State Report on the two covenants points out that the economic situation for Indigenous Peoples remains fragile. Their average yearly income for 2014 was NTD650,810, about 61.4% that of national households. From this it is evident that even if Indigenous persons choose to move to urban areas, their economic position and employment conditions remain vulnerable.</p></li>

  <li><p>Per Articles 2, 3 and 26 of the ICCPR stipulating the principles of non-discrimination and equality, as well as Article 2 on anti-discrimination and Articles 6 and 7 on job security and equality in the work place in the ICESCR, the nation should take active steps to both eliminate employment discrimination faced by vulnerable populations and to ensure equal access to development opportunities.</p></li>

  <li><p>The second State Report on anti-discrimination measures regarding employment responded only to those measures regarding unemployment compensation and specialized courses for Indigenous job training, and, even when providing statistics to demonstrate job training effectiveness, only the number of participants was indicated. The report completely failed to answer how effective the measures were in dealing with the employment difficulties of the Indigenous population coping with high unemployment and low-paying jobs.<sup>1</sup></p></li>

  <li><p>A comprehensive approach that takes into account factors such as insufficient community employment opportunities, difficulties in the promotion of community industries and urban employment discrimination, should be the method of choice when considering proposals on Indigenous job security. As a result, we recommend the following:</p></li>
    <ol>
      <li><p>The Ministry of Labor in its State Report should explain its statistical data on current Indigenous job categories and the actual number of employment counseling successes by job category. This would make for a more substantive examination of the effectiveness of the country's currently proposed measures on job security.

      <li><p>The present "Indigenous Peoples Employment Rights Protection Act" has certain stipulations on hiring percentages and employment promotion for public enterprises, public projects and government procurement; however, the current State Report lacks relevant explanations on their effectiveness. As a result, we suggest that the Council of Indigenous Peoples and the Ministry of Labor make a joint inventory of current hirings by the relevant institutions to determine whether low rates of implementation might merit recommendations for improvement.</p></li>

      <li><p>In addition to lowering the unemployment rate, the Ministry of Labor together with the Council of Indigenous Peoples should jointly confront such issues as Indigenous low-wage and high-risk employment as well as insufficient opportunities for career development. This should be done in the effort to investigate and draft concrete plans for job counseling and career advancement so as to turn around the systemic problems faced by Indigenous Peoples in the labor market.</p></li>
    </p>
  </li>
</ol>

### Article 9

### Encroachment on the Social and Cultural Rights of Indigenous Peoples

<ol start="9">
  <li><p>Article 10 of the Amendment to the Constitution clearly sets out the principle of "respect for the issues of Indigenous Peoples" as do the provisions on "conformance to the unique characteristics of Indigenous Peoples" in Articles 24, 26, and 28 of the Indigenous Peoples Basic Law. However, their emphasis on the spirit of multiculturalism and their statutory assurances for the basic rights of Indigenous Peoples have yet to be realized in their execution, nor do they appear to ever be attainable. Because the country lacks a system of participatory parity for Indigenous Peoples as well as reliable investigatory data for long-term care of Indigenous Peoples (presently only the national census has been used to estimate the conditions in Indigenous areas), the particularities and differences between Indigenous Peoples has not been readily observable. This situation has resulted in a failure by current welfare policy planners to incorporate Indigenous perspectives that has then led to the inability of the service provision system to meet the needs of Indigenous populations.</p></li>

  <li><p>Articles 14<sup>2</sup>, 18<sup>3</sup> and 24<sup>4</sup> of the Long-Term Care Act passed in 2015 will have a lasting impact on the development of a system of long-term care for Indigenous Peoples. The content of these three articles, however, lacks a system of direct participation by representatives of Indigenous Peoples and, moreover, clearly limits counterparts in participatory counseling to only those institutions at the level of central government (e.g., the Ministry of Health and Welfare or the Council of Indigenous Peoples). This deficiency results in an encroachment on the social and cultural rights of Indigenous Peoples at the site of care. For example, Taiwan's long-term health care service designates a professional care manager responsible for evaluations and allocated hours. Since the long-term care system lacks equitable participation by Taiwan's Indigenous Peoples, the ability to speak Indigenous languages and cultural familiarity is usually overlooked in the selection of a professional care manager. Moreover, the stressful activity of initiating a case for localized long-term care many Indigenous takes place in homeland regions at the country's margins and progresses slowly.</p></li>

  <li><p>The proportionate rate of elderly in the Indigenous areas exceeds that of the general population: for 2015, the Indigenous areas with the highest percentage of persons 55 years and older was 39% (Taidong County, Changbin Cheng Township) and the lowest 14% (Kaohsiung City, Namasia District); both of these exceed Taiwan's 12.51% average elderly population statistic. From this data it is evident that the social security needs for these Indigenous areas is pressing; however, according to data from the Ministry of Health and Welfare analyzing the use of long-term care services for 55 Indigenous rural areas in 2013, only 42 disabled elderly Indigenous utilized long-term care resources, well below the national average for allocations. Among these Indigenous areas nearly 30% did not reach half of the national average for disabled elderly care expenses. These numbers indicate that the long-standing position of Indigenous areas at the country's margins when it comes to the allocation of long-term health care resources.</p></li>

  <li><p>This marginalized situation indicates neglect for the unique historical and cultural circumstances of Taiwan's Indigenous Peoples; a situation that can be extended to include the individual's social right to long-term care and the recognition of the Peoples’ cultural rights. Under the premise of the nation's obligation to recognize an individual's social right to care and the Peoples’ cultural rights, a reliable investigation of the data on the situation of long-term care broken-down into statistical categories of ethnicity and content of long-term care should be carried out that will lead to the establishment of a system of long-term care for Indigenous Peoples.</p></li>

  <li><p>Summary and Recommendations:</p>
    <ol>
      <li><p>The government should undertake a survey based on the specific service content needs of the Indigenous Peoples. Recommendation is for the establishment of a system for investigation of the data derived from Indigenous areas (not just inferential estimations), and a developmental plan that respects the wishes of Indigenous Peoples for long-term care.</p></li>

      <li><p>Based on the premise of comprehensive consultation with Indigenous Peoples, the process of amending the following articles of the Long-term Care Act should go forward: Article 5, section 1; Article 6, section 5; Article 7, section 2; Article 9, item 2, section 2; Article 14, section 5; Article 18; Article 19; Article 22; and, Article 24.</p></li>

      <li><p>An independent system of long-term care for Indigenous Peoples at the community level should be promoted and provided with sufficient funding. A mechanism of collaborative management should be set up that provides for Indigenous Peoples participation in aspects of coordination, deliberation, and consultation on relevant items of long-term care<sup>5</sup>.</p></li>
    </ol>
  </li>
</ol>

### Article 10

### Child Care and Nursery of Urban Indigenous Peoples

<ol start="14">
  <li><p>In order to support the family, most indigenous people immigrant to urban areas for better working opportunities who also encounter high living expanses of the urban areas, rent of the house and cost of the original family from the indigenous communities, so adults of the family are expected to work for less financial stress. Due to the weak social supporting system and the lack of family connections, however, after moving to urban areas, the concern over child mining has become a common problem of urban indigenous people.</p></li>

  <li><p>Based on ICESCR, the states should provide the widest possible of protection and assistance to the children (article 10). Although explicit general plan of nursery of the state shown in the State Report, the differentials of families with urban indigenous people and normal people are not included in the report yet.</p></li>

  <li><p>For example, normal families might experience less childcare stress by public nursery and childcare facilities; however, suffering from insufficient social resources, urban indigenous peoples have limited access to the useful resources in the urban areas. The highly demand of public childcare services in the populated cities, regardless of the private childcare units, has made most of the indigenous parents choose to leave the children in the traditional communities with families and relatives due to large childcare fares.</p></li>

  <li><p>Regarding insufficient family care resources of urban indigenous people and kinship care and grandparenting in the traditional communities, we recommend,</p>
    <ol>
      <li><p>In accordance with Ministry of Education, Council of Indigenous Peoples should provide possible assistance with education regime and policy resources for families of grandparenting and kinship care in the communities, who will be equipped with fine communication and more parenting experiences to form a strong support to indigenous children in the family.</p></li>

      <li><p>Nearly half of the indigenous population now lives in urban areas. High stress among indigenous parents in urban areas is linked to poor economic resources and inadequate social support. The government should develop sufficient patterns of care in respect of multiple cultures to solve the difficulty of economic instability which cause the urban indigenous children to have lack of self-confidence and loss of cultural identity due to vulnerable household background and poor adaptation.</p></li>
    </ol>
  </li>

  <li><p>No matter being raised in urban areas or rural areas, the complete and sufficient care should be equally enjoyed by indigenous kids. The state should not confine the childcare system to local childcare units; instead, the differentiate of disparate areas and ethnic groups should put into consideration. With various patterns of care result from different social structures, the integration of relevant policy-making levels, e.g. Ministry of Health and Welfare, Ministry of Education, Council of Indigenous Peoples and etc., enables the state to fully support and assist indigenous families which is also the foundation to ensure every child grows up in a safe and healthy environment.</p></li>
</ol>

### Article 11

### Right to Housing of Indigenous Peoples in Urban Areas

<ol start="19">
  <li><p>Indigenous areas have faced uneven distribution of resources, which led to the lack of resources for development. As a consequence, nearly half of the Indigenous population moved to the metropolitan areas in order to seek for better employment, education, healthcare, and other vital functions. The status of urban Indigenous Peoples’ housing could be roughly divided into scattered communities and Indigenous households in the urban areas. Both of these categories face the common dilemma because of weak economic conditions, lack of social support system, and ignorance of ethnic subjectivity.</p></li>

  <li><p>According to Article 11 of ICESCR, the government should provide disadvantaged individuals and families basic living guarantee residence. The government's ICESCR Core Document, paragraph 21 points out that the proportion of Indigenous homestead is 73.2%, which is lower than the 85.32% of households nationwide because Indigenous population continues to move to the urban areas. However, in the ICESCR Core Document, paragraph 220 for minority’s residency, it takes merely performance of transferring reservations in response without offering measures and instructions of residency improvement for Indigenous Peoples who live scattered in the city such as the Sanyin Community and the Sijhou Community etc. Therefore, we argue strongly that the State Report should add information referring to plans for rent, homebuyers, and community-type collective housing and statistical date for currently residential overview. Additionally, the report should make a clarification for the current situation and the corresponding process of the 20 urban communities in 6 counties.</p></li>

  <li><p>The issue of urban communities which face difficulties regarding community care, cultural heritage and residents’ autonomy are simplified to residency. The composition of urban communities has specific historical causes, elements, a common cultural context and collective norms. However, the government has no idea regarding the particularity of urban communities, the fundamental of community sovereignty, by operating meanings of resettlement subsidies, settlement counseling, and demolition of the illegal building in many cases to solve community problems in urban areas.</p></li>

  <li><p>For instance, the response from government’s conclusion and recommendations in ICESCR Initial Report, paragraph 47-49 shows that urban Indigenous communities have been seen as illegal construction and thus limit government's obligations in coordinated sets of measures such as counsel and loan. This is clearly inconsistent with "realization of the rights "mentioned in Article 11 of ICESCR. The plan and progress of social housing remain stagnation and unknown. Moreover, New Taipei City government tends to build houses by the loans for people live in Sijhou Community instead of from the perspective of the right to housing. This policy forces community members into private sector of financial market in an adverse situation.</p></li>

  <li><p>In the current situation, numerous urban communities are still facing serious problems in terms of right to housing. After severe storms, the Sijhou Community encountered distress but merely received financial support from the private sector. The government did not provide appropriate assistance during the period of post-disaster reconstruction. Even in the end of 2015, local authorities eradicated community garden of the Sijhou Community, which reveals that government departments underestimate plan and arrangements of residential relocation.</p></li>

  <li><p>In addition, the right to water for urban Indigenous settlements is hard to reach the general standard of living. Whether the Sijhou Community, the KanJin Community, or the Sawaz Community are treated unequally and even discriminated by the past governments initiatives and legal policy. These communities become the city's problems receivers from economic development and industrial pollution. These problems have not been coped with by the central and local government, and however, are subjected to existing laws. There is the need to incorporate these issues into due process of law and the people should be able to substantially participate in the process to affect the decision-making and make recommendations to amend the law.</p></li>
</ol>

### Article 12

### Aboriginal right to medical treatment

<ol start="25">
  <li><p>Taiwan's Indigenous live in the lack of public resources allocated field, seriously affecting the communities’ fundamental right to life. Due to employment opportunities, the young population moves to urban areas, the main residence in Indigenous areas is the old people, children and disable people. People with chronic illness, disability live under the inconvenient living conditions, lack of the necessary assistance, and it is not easy for them to see the doctors. Differences between each Indigenous language and culture lead to differences in health awareness, self-care and professional medical team. It is also not good to the healthy restore and chronic disease control after hospital discharge. Repeated migrations and changes due to policy or natural disaster, plus inappropriate project plan and public construction, directly lead to the place of residence facing various risk and also threaten the safety of local residents.</p></li>

  <li><p>In response to paragraph 240 of the State Report of the ICESCR, significant disparity exists in the distribution of medical institutions. Besides the severity of difference existing between the townships and villages of counties and cities<sup>6</sup>, each county (city) itself exhibits clear disparity of distribution with the residential areas of Indigenous Peoples being always the most deficient in medical institutions.<sup>7</sup> Although each township has at least one health clinic, however despite the distances in service areas<sup>8</sup>, most are concentrated along main arterials such that for some clinics in remote townships the distance to clinics of neighboring townships with more abundant medical resources is actually comparatively closer than the township's own clinic. Thus, the issue of proximity to medical services for residences has yet to be actually improved.</p></li>

  <li><p>In addition, the transportation in Indigenous living areas is often poor, especially the road condition and lighting system. The lack of convenience public transportation makes it difficult for the ill or disable residents to access doctor by themselves, or would have to waste an amount of time and money. If the residents have to go to hospital, the constant commute between hospitals and home will cause more burdens on the patients and their families. When disaster occurs, Indigenous living areas will easily become isolated by damage, the residents thus can’t get immediate help.</p></li>

  <li><p>The above identified phenomenon demonstrates that during the planning of the medical services network by authorized health authorities’ due consideration was not given to the geographic distances in areas inhabited by Indigenous Peoples for the specialized distribution of medical facilities. Pursuing distribution only on the basis of cost accounting has resulted in a situation of false equality in medical services between townships.</p></li>

  <li><p>The distribution of health workers is concentrated around hospitals which are mostly located in high-density population centers.<sup>9</sup> <sup>10</sup> This is especially true for medical professionals engaged in specialized treatment of relevant acute diseases which are to an even greater extent over-represented in urban centers. In comparison to Taiwan's urban areas, medical professionals living in or travelling to Indigenous areas are mostly living off a civil service salary. They earn less than their peers with frequent reassignments, long working hours, more responsibilities, and significant discrepancies in functional living conveniences compared to cities. Medical equipment and support staff insufficiencies, to which can be added the tendency for most patients to present more severe symptoms of disease and medical emergencies, contributes to a less than adequate sense of accomplishment as well as high levels of turn-over amongst these medical practitioners.<sup>11</sup> This has resulted in a constant state of staffing deficiencies for medical institutions operating in Indigenous areas, which has led to a self-perpetuating vicious cycle. While larger medical facilities in the areas do dispatch support physicians, however, due to time required for one-day round-trip travel and continued obligations at the dispatched physicians’ home facilities, the amount of time available for their support services on site is limited.</p></li>

  <li><p>The Ministry of Health and Welfare, in an effort to cope with the current deficiency in medical resources for Indigenous areas, has put in place two contingency plans. The first of these is an Integrated Health Care Delivery System (IDS) that relies upon intra-county large medical facilities for the provision of general and/or specialized clinic visits twice a week to the various settlements in mountainous or off-island townships.<sup>12</sup> The other of these is an improvement plan for those areas having insufficient western medicine treatment resources, whereby hospitals or clinics in the more populated townships of the central plain<sup>13</sup> are incentivized to open facilities or provide circuit clinic visits to settlements lacking sufficient medical resources. Both plans are covered by the National Health Plan and have an additional fixed budget for the payment of incentives.</p></li>

  <li><p>In practice, however, both of these plans have merely transferred a model of urban medical treatment to the Indigenous regions. Time restraints and lack of incentives have resulted in the preference of physicians to maintain the fixed locale clinic system over one that utilizes house calls. One of the problems in the physician dispatch system is that patients with a diagnosis suspecting a more serious condition have to wait diagnostic results on the next visit or make a personal trip to the city hospital for tests due to the lack of adequate labs and testing equipment nearby or the problem of local equipment that cannot communicate with that of the designated facility. Efforts to integrate local resident needs between designated facilities and local Health Clinics have also been unsuccessful and many specialized clinical visits due to the lack of a referral mechanism or requisite equipment resemble little more than a visit to a general clinical such that they can be called specialized clinics in name only.</p></li>

  <li><p>Additionally, there is wide discrepancy in language, life-style, and health knowledge between physicians and local residents. Communications between doctors and patients about a diagnosis and its later follow-up procedures presents such difficulties that the physician generally opts to merely prescribe medicine to treat health problems in these local communities as opposed to educating patients on their health care. Cost considerations of the designated provider facility also lead to frequent changes in the attending physician or the designated facility. These frequent personnel changes adversely affect the sense of control or level of confidence in the patient. Continued inability to integrate local residents’ health information between regions and between institutions as well as the manner by which residents might be able to set health policy in light of their ineffectual participation rights all demonstrate that despite the shifting of resources, they have yet to truly be in the benefit of Indigenous Peoples.</p></li>
</ol>

### Right to Health of Indigenous Peoples

<ol start="33">
  <li><p>Average life expectancies for Taiwan's Indigenous Peoples at all age levels, which are less than those for non-Indigenous, demonstrate that their right to health has yet to be raised to an adequate level. Although the Ministry of Health and Welfare in 2011 completed plans for the "Indigenous Peoples Health Act", however up to the present date discussions of the Act have yet to be taken up in its administrative branch. Inequalities in health care experienced by Taiwan’s Indigenous Peoples are a stark reminder of the hegemony of the country's mainstream ethnocentrism and its systemic, economic and governmental discrimination of Indigenous Peoples. Life expectancies in all age groups of Indigenous populations, as shown by current data, are less than those for non-Indigenous populations. Moreover, the damage done to Indigenous life expectancies can be closely related to the structural violence caused by the failure to fully implement the rights of Indigenous Peoples. Indigenous women's health, high new-born mortality rates, high rates of accidental mortality, alcoholism, suicide, tuberculosis, chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis, and metabolic syndromes all point to the serious health issues confronting today's Indigenous Peoples.</p></li>

  <li><p>However, the government, in its amendments to the policy on Indigenous Peoples health, intentionally used the terms “medicalized”, “generalized”, and “individualized”, resulting in the inability of the Ministry of Health's legislative department to proceed with already considerably delayed discussions on Article 24 “Draft Indigenous Peoples Health Act” in the year 2011 “Indigenous Peoples Basic Law”. Moreover, the newly issued “2025 Health and Welfare Policy White Paper” also cancelled the Indigenous Peoples special chapter contained in the “2020 Health of the Citizens White Paper”, resulting in Indigenous people being faced with a grave situation harmful to their health rights. In order to resolve the inequitable situation in health care confronted by Indigenous Peoples, the government should rely on the concept of health rights set forth by the World Health Organization to plan and establish a medical system and policy of improved living conditions that conforms to the needs of Indigenous Peoples and provides for cultural safety. At the same time legislative work for passage of the “Indigenous Peoples Health Act should be expedited so as to ensure the health and welfare of Indigenous Peoples.</p></li>
</ol>

### The Impact of Man-Made Environments on the Mental and Physical Health of Indigenous Children

<ol start="35">
  <li><p>In Taiwan, there are physical and mental challenges to Indigenous children imposed by man-made environment and measures. For example, the government in response to the financial and declining birthrate phenomenon, has cut down and merge Indigenous schools in some rural areas (or some areas simply do not have junior or senior school). This situation results in more children forced to leave their families or communities, and moved to boarding schools, or long commutes between school and home every day. This situation affects Indigenous children not only on personal safety and physical health, but also in the absence of appropriate support systems and cultural care, more often causing their mental and physical inadaptation, and confusion regarding identity, cultural exclusion, and psychological trauma phenomenon.</p></li>

  <li><p>The migration policies for the relocation of communities do not meet the principle of proportionality in the area and land category. The plan and demand of facilities for relocation do not allow Indigenous Peoples to participate fully that not only compress life and survival, deprive the right to farming, hunting, gathering, but also expropriate the right for children in cultural learning and the growth of healthy humanistic environment.</p></li>

  <li><p>The government has placed nuclear waste on Lanyu Island for more than 30 years. Even though the government claimed that the storage of the nuclear waste is safe, the worries about and stress of nuclear waste pollution have seriously affected the local Indigenous persons, including the physical and spiritual health of children. Also, the chimney of the fired power plant located near the kindergarten directly harms the health of children over the years.</p></li>

  <li><p>The cases described above shows man-made measures and facilities change could impose negative impacts on Indigenous children's physical, mental, and cultural health.</p></li>
</ol>

### Article 13

### Indigenous Peoples Education Act

<ol start="39">
  <li><p>According to Article 13, Item 2, Section 3 of the ICESCR, the Implementation Bylaws of the Indigenous Peoples Education Act was not completed until 2005, despite the 1998 promulgation of the Indigenous Peoples Education Act. In 2011, the Council of Indigenous Peoples set out planning for a “Third Semester System Experimental School” with schools for each group of Indigenous Peoples estimated to be completed by 2016. Progress toward completion has already fallen behind schedule, creating in the process further classism.<sup>14</sup> Additionally, government advocacy of “Primary School Closures and Mergers” in response to trending low birth rates has raised concerns of a worsening situation for Indigenous primary education.<sup>15</sup> As for qualified teaching staff, the year 2013 amendment to Article 25 of the Indigenous Peoples Education Act set the teacher ratio for Indigenous students which should continue to be observed after the end of the improvement period in 2018. Per the section on higher education in Paragraph 5 under Item 2 of the same Article, Indigenous students who advance to higher education are over-represented in technical vocational schools.<sup>16</sup> This situation limits the full development of critical thinking capacities as well as the cultivation of talent for diverse fields, affecting adversely the overall progress for said Peoples.</p></li>
</ol>

### The Right to Education

<ol start="40">
  <li><p>The Council of Indigenous Peoples and Ministry of Education simultaneously promote Indigenous student educational assistance policies to augment the acceptance rate basis the percentage of students participating in college placement testing. They also provide a variety of programs to relieve the economic burden of educational expenses. However, year 2013 statistical data on Indigenous education released by the Ministry of Education for the preceding 5-year period, revealed deferred-studies rates ranging from 3.1% to 4.8% and dropout rates ranging from 1.3% to 1.6% for high school level students. Both of these rates exceeded those of the general student population. For colleges and universities, Indigenous deferred-studies and dropout rates were 7.23% and 10.27%, respectively; higher than the 5.78% and 6.43% rates of the general student population. The reason of “economic difficulties” was cited by 11.1% of students who deferred studies (reasons for the other 89.9% were not mentioned). The most cited reason for dropping-out (54%) was “overdue failure to register or overdue failure to re-register following a period of deferred studies”. Are these comparatively higher rates for deferred studies and dropouts amongst Indigenous students related to oppressive stress brought on by racial discrimination or prejudice from their peers? Additionally, within the organizational structures of high schools and universities are there not units tasked with the specific responsibility of offering multicultural counseling or designated bodies/teachers who can provide guidance to Indigenous students coping with issues of cultural differences at school?</p></li>

  <li><p>In connection to the above issues, anti-discrimination policies related to Indigenous educational rights should not be limited only to the elevation of education participation rates but at the same time need to also closely examine the current educational environment. Is long-term planning needed to nurture a sense of the subjective self and cultivate Indigenous talent through methods such as the safeguarding of ethnic pride, extension of ethnic networks and augmentation of ethnic welfare? According to the 2014 statistics of the Ministry of Education on Indigenous education, the top field of study for Indigenous students in college and university was nursing (3,285 persons), representing 12.9% of Indigenous students. Moreover basic technical and vocational areas of study made up the top 20 fields studied, indicating underrepresentation in the training of logical reasoning via majors in the Humanities and Liberal Arts departments.</p></li>

  <li><p>Additionally, each teacher-training college in its training of qualified teachers might include such relevant course curriculum credits as multicultural education, Indigenous culture and history, and Indigenous student psychology so as to raise the standard of teacher training as well as cultural sensitivity. This would nurture respect and understanding for other cultures so as to prevent such issues as racist language and subjective bias being brought into the classroom by new teachers. These are all important elements of anti-discrimination policy.</p></li>

  <li><p>The Council of Indigenous Peoples has pointed out that current curriculum outlines already include competency indexes related to ethnic harmony and respect for diverse cultures. These subjects serve to assist students in acquiring respect and knowledge for the culture of diverse ethnic groups while also promoting ethnic harmony and preventing discrimination. However in the classroom, besides just textbooks that have shallow, selective and fragmentary narratives, material dealing with Indigenous cultures and histories contains many errors, stereotypes and historical anachronisms. For example, in the period starting from Dutch rule of Taiwan to mid-Qing governance the Indigenous Peoples of the plains endured unequal treatment and oppressive policies imposed by outside governing forces: a period of historical suffering seldom depicted in current textbooks.</p></li>

  <li><p>Overall, while there may be a legislated foundation in the educational system, however at the level of actual implementation of Indigenous education is still relegated to a supplementary status for overall education. First of all, take the Indigenous language classes in elementary school as an example, there is only one class per week and by junior and senior high school the course is optional. The importance of the Indigenous language course in the school curriculum remains well behind that of English and Chinese. Qualified minority language instructors have yet to receive status on par with the job guarantees of full-time English instructions, instead having only the status of teaching assistant in the classroom. Secondly, although a number of elementary schools have applied for grants from the Council of Indigenous Peoples to promote Indigenous education as a core curriculum, however the arduous efforts of primary school teachers to nurture Indigenous educational content are underappreciated at the junior and senior high school levels where materials promoting progressive advancement through grade-levels are instead prioritized. The neglect for courses related to Indigenous cultures in secondary schools represents a major gap in the passing along of Indigenous education. These instances demonstrate that the government's establishment of a coherent educational system to promote Indigenous subjective identity remains in its infancy and that Indigenous education in the overall educational environment still holds the status of being a supplemental product.</p></li>
</ol>

### Indigenous Peoples’ Language Education

<ol start="45">
  <li><p>After going through a long period of suppression, Indigenous languages began a period of revitalization following the lifting of martial law in 1987. Since the 1990s, individuals, people, churches and schools have begun to produce a number of Indigenous related books and teaching materials. In 2001, through the hard work of people from all walks of life, a 9-year program for Indigenous languages became an official part of the teaching curriculum with a once a week class in which the teaching of speaking and listening comprehension took precedence over reading and writing.</p></li>

  <li><p>The 9-year curriculum “Elective Course” implementation syllabus explained: “3. Primary students from grade 1 to 6 must take one of three native languages: Minnan, Hakka, or Indigenous. Study of the language in Junior High is optional. Schools may, according to local conditions and resources, offer other native language courses in addition to Minnan, Hakka, and Indigenous.” Whether looking at the amount of learning content or time allocated for teaching, the portion of class hours and level of importance attached to minority language teaching remains far behind that for Chinese.</p></li>

  <li><p>The upcoming “12 years of compulsory education curriculum outline” in 2018 is going to shift the methods of Indigenous language learning courses, which is going to focus more on reading and writing, and less on the listening and speaking. However, in the discussion of curriculum design, the Indigenous representatives urged the Ministry of Education to categorize the Indigenous languages in the obligatory courses. Upon receiving the rejection from the Ministry of Education, the Indigenous representatives instantly required the Ministry of Education at least to make Indigenous language as obligatory course in the Indigenous focus schools. And the Indigenous students’ right to learning in secondary education was then slightly secured. Nevertheless, in the regular high schools, the Indigenous language is still categorized in optional courses, which means it depends on schools to decide whether or not to give the course of Indigenous languages for students. Under this condition, Indigenous students’ right to learning Indigenous languages is compromised for school’s convenience.</p></li>

  <li><p>Since implementation of the 12-year national basic curriculum syllabus, there has been a simultaneous shortage of qualified teachers. The current average age of qualified instructors for Indigenous languages is around 50 years old. In the 15 years since implementation of the 9-year curriculum relevant institutions have yet to actively cultivate young Indigenous language teachers or to assist in changing the employment status of current Indigenous language instructors into that of an official teaching position. Without urgent attention to planning and empowerment, Indigenous languages will quickly vanish as the shortage in qualified teachers accelerates.</p></li>

  <li><p>The Indigenous languages have been an official part of the curriculum for 15 years. In comparison to Chinese their status has not noticeably improved; moreover, under the influence of Taiwan's teaching-for-the-entrance-exam, Indigenous languages have been consistently considered to be languages lacking competitive value. Even the magistrate of Taidong County, where the greatest numbers of Taiwan's Indigenous reside, has publicly expressed the misconception that Indigenous languages squeeze out English instruction. Neglect for the legacy rights of Indigenous languages will ultimately bring to an end of Indigenous language learning while still in its formative stage, not to mention the effects of Indigenous language revitalization.</p></li>

  <li><p>Presently Taiwan's local language courses are viewed like “art classes”, that is to say not as a critical part of primary school education. Moreover, in practice not all schools are able to cope with students’ language learning needs and provide the relevant teaching staff and class resources. Many children not in their homeland regions are not able to freely choose their own Indigenous language to study at school and, instead, are compelled to elect a different local language, having a serious adverse impact on the development of Indigenous languages. Faced with exam-based pressure at the junior high school level, local language courses have been designated electives, lacking active encouragement for their selection and a fixed schedule of course offerings. By high school there are not even any relevant course options. At the university level such course offerings are dependent on whether a school has relevant resources (relevant departments or programs as well as qualified teachers) and whether or not a school's administrators are determined to offer a course. From this it can be surmised that government efforts to compile teaching materials and set up a system for the production of texts might be said to be satisfactory, however in practice at the site of instruction the results have been less than lackluster. </p></li>

  <li><p>A return to equality in language status is of particular importance with respect to Taiwan. Over the past 60 years many speakers of local languages have been gradually departing while younger generations, facing the structural and educational constraints of the emerging environment, have not been able to fully utilize the languages in everyday life. As a result it has become the solemn duty of the government to actively promote the revitalization of local, especially Indigenous languages.</p></li>

  <li><p>Therefore the following proposals are recommended:</p>
    <ol>
      <li><p>Draft a National Language Development Act that confirms the status of the country's local languages and, based on this foundation, promote the right to language equality.</p></li>

      <li><p>In respect to local Indigenous languages, efforts should be stepped up to promote their return and heritage. When necessary, methods, such as required language courses, should be incorporated into the mainstream curriculum and systematically put into effect. For example, methods such as taking a second local language in addition to one's own can be used to expand the user environment, allowing local languages to actually be used and circulate.</p></li>

      <li><p>The government should do a full accounting of the educational resources and qualified teachers available for Indigenous languages instruction. An online teaching program should also be developed so as to preempt, via online access to courses, the opting out of those schools that are not in Indigenous homelands or that have extremely low demand for language learning.</p></li>
    </ol>
  </li>
</ol>

### Urban Indigenous affirmative culture

<ol start="53">
  <li><p>Most of the Indigenous area and some urban areas with abundant resource do have the power to revitalize and maintain their culture because of central policy support. However, there still has some Indigenous persons who live in the urban areas with less resource or inside territory depopulation; they are hardly to find the way to learn their maternal culture. Secondly, even set the related resource units inside of urban area, normally it’s a small amount or single spot. Urban Indigenous Peoples usually live scattered and culture development work is hard to spread and inefficiently under this circumstances. </p></li>

  <li><p>According to Article 13 of ICESCR regarding the right to education, Article 15 regarding affirmative culture, the country should actively maintain the vulnerable groups’ rights to education and rights to participate in the development of cultural life. In the ICESCR second State Report, although listed Indigenous culture and maintenance of affirmative action policies, but which refers to the use of language in an unfriendly environment, the strong influence of language, lack of field and other issues, are still the actual situation in the Indigenous area. However, in the State Reports, they do not have any specific policies and solutions for this case.</p></li>

  <li><p>Regarding the situation and problem faced by urban Indigenous, we advise:</p>
    <ol>
      <li><p>The things like Indigenous language, traditional cultural knowledge or even Indigenous rituals of practice, not only host in the fixed space (such as the Indigenous Peoples Committee Hall, tribal universities), but also should develop culture promotion class by walking around or organize some theme activities. Make urban Indigenous Peoples enjoy the equal culture learning opportunities without any limitation.</p></li>

      <li><p>In addition to handling affirmative cultural activities in the metropolitan area, also should focus on strengthening the establishment of links between the traditional land and metropolitan area. So that urban Indigenous are not required because of the commuting distance, economic costs and other obstacles forced to alienate their maternal culture. For example, although each Indigenous person can choose the one optional day off for the Indigenous ritual by their wish and tradition, the clansman who lives in the urban area may flinch because of the distance between urban and rural area, transportation cost or may subject to the employers and peers complaint. Therefore, they would rather keep their job instead of going back to their communities and participate in the ritual activity. In this regard, the Government should consider the difference between reality and ethnic, cultural differences, in order to implement affirmative culture, rather than the seeming performance.</p></li>
    </ol>
  </li>
</ol>

### Article 15

### Right to Culture: Indigenous Peoples’ Day off for Traditional Ceremonies

<ol start="56">
  <li><p>From the perspective of the equality of each ethnic culture, Indigenous Peoples’ rituals should be subjected to the same attention and respect with Han’s festival custom. Start from 2011, the implementation of the “Indigenous rituals should have a day off” is a well-intentioned initiative, but it is hard to achieve due to the system design. This measure is not like State Report declared “will help the community to respect multiculturalism”, and it is also not conducive to the implementation of the requirements of Article 15 of ICESCR, paragraph 1, the individual has the right to participate in cultural life. Please see the following paragraphs for the explanations.</p></li>

  <li><p>Make no contribution to the community to respect cultural diversity: Although the Indigenous ritual only belongs to Indigenous Peoples, the vacation is made by state regulation. Indigenous employees always face to a deliberate dilemma when they ask for leave. Employers cannot understand the situation and treat it as a privilege. Even Indigenous employees have the right to leave; they will not advocate leaving. It is more likely to say that widen the gap between each ethic groups than respect for the multicultural society.</p></li>

  <li><p>It does not help to implement the required ICESCR Article 15, paragraph 1 of the right of everyone to participate in cultural life. For example, each year between July and August, each of the Amis/Pangcah communities will begin to stage the biggest ritual activity in the year called ilisin or kilumaan (different community has various name). The period during the festival about five to seven days and there is a month-long preparation time. This ritual is equivalent to New Year in Han Chinese culture. However, in Taiwan, Han Chinese New Year is a five-day national holiday, might be seven to nine days plus a weekend. Relatively speaking, one day off to Indigenous ritual seems like a ridiculous charity. Moreover, the majority of Indigenous employees work in the city. There is no enough time to take part in the cultural activity if count on the commuting time. Let alone with the full participation.</p></li>

  <li><p>Here are the suggestions we advised: the government should customize a new policy of national holiday and abolish the national holidays which are untimely and symbolized the old authority. Some diversification respectful holiday like International Migrants Day, and International Indigenous Peoples Day. Moreover, the government should plan in the policy to make all ethnic groups can participate fully in their respective cultural rituals, even like the “cultural learning” vacation, let each ethnic group may take part and learn from other’s cultures in order to truly promote the respect of a diverse society in Taiwan.</p></li>
</ol>

-----

<ol>
  <li>Refer to Paragraph 49 of the Second State Report on the ICESCR Article 14” Central government authorities should carry out on fixed dates surveys the resources and needs of long-term care that consider the special needs of diverse cultures and unique difficulties of outer island remote areas. Based on this set forth development plans for long term care and adopt necessary grant policies. Central authorities in order to even out the development of resources for long term care shall partition long term care service network areas, allocate area resources, and establish service networks along with development plans for transport systems and staffing. Moreover, limits on the establishment of long term care organizations or subsidies shall be imposed on areas with a surplus of resources. Those areas deficient in resources should be provided grants in order to carry out fully all the items of a robust long-term care service system. In Indigenous areas the planning and mobilization of long term care services, long-term care service networks, and staff development should be carried out by central authorities in consultations with the Council of Indigenous Peoples. Central authorities to provide grants for relevant research to develop new services in long term care. Central authorities shall decide primary and secondary grant items, the methods to set-up or limit the expansion of long-term care organizations, the planning of second stage long term care networks, the means for human resources development, and other such relevant matters.”</li>
  <li>Article 18 “The provision of long-term care, per the special items of long term care announced by central authorities, shall be administered by long term care personnel. Long-term care personnel training, continuing education, and on the job course content should consider the differences in areas, ethnicities, genders, specific diseases, and care giving experience. Long-term care personnel should receive set performance marks for continuing education and on the job training. Long-term care personnel training, certification, continuing education course content, grade certification, effective periods for accreditations, and the management other newer relevant issues shall be determined by central authorities.”</li>
  <li>Article 24 “Long-term care organization application requirements, establishment standards, liability qualifications; the application process for their set up, expansion or transfer; audit benchmarks and the content to be recorded on establishment licenses; and other relevant management items shall be determined by central authorities. The establishment of long-term care organizations and staffing in Indigenous areas to be determined by central authorities in consultations with the Council of Indigenous Peoples.”</li>
  <li>Consensus management is a pattern type in the spectrum of Indigenous autonomy and not a set mechanism. Due to unique histories and cultures, each tribe has different strengths. Because of this, the equitable participation of tribes in discussions and policy decisions as well as joint management and autonomy is paramount.</li>
  <li>According to year 2014 statistics compiled by the Taiwan Medical Association, the medical institutions in Taiwan's six direct administered metropolitan areas (Taipei, New Taipei City, Taoyuan, Taichung, Tainan, and Kaohsiung) account for 71.9% of the country's total (table 10, p.7). Yearly additions of new medical institutions are also mostly concentrated in these areas (table 9, p.14). The Indigenous Peoples population is comparatively concentrated in the Hualien area of Taitung County and makes up a mere 2.2% of the total national population. Change to medical institutions is also experiencing negative growth. Additionally, according to the same data higher level hospitals for the whole of Taiwan district-level and above hospitals (district, regional, medical teaching centers) are more than 90% concentrated in the 6 direct administrative metropolitan areas; the two cities of Hualien and Taitung account for a mere 3.4% (p.36).</li>
  <li>According to not 48's similar statistical data, within Hualien County 65% of medical institutions are concentrated in the administrative districts of Hualien City and Jian Township. In Taitung County only 53% are concentrated in Taitung City.</li>
  <li>For Hualien County's Hsiulin Township, Taiwan's most vast in administrative area with 1,641.8 square kilometers, there are only 12 clinics within its borders. Nantou County, Xinyi Township with an area of 1,422.4 square kilometers has 9 clinics.</li>
  <li>According to similar statistical data in not 1, in 2014 Hualien and Taitung Counties together had 1,096 physicians, a total population of 557,863 and total land area of 7,783.82 square kilometers, making the number of people per physician 500 and the number of physicians per square kilometer 0.14. The nation's capital, Taipei has a total of 9,213 physicians in an area of 271.80 square kilometers, making 293.32 per physician and 33.90 physicians per square kilometer.</li>
  <li>Within Hualien County and Hualien City there are 552 physicians representing 70.1% of the county's total 787 physicians. Not considering Hualien City's physician and the population to area calculation, a simple calculation indicates that Hualien County's physicians need to service 966.05 persons in an area where each square kilometer has only 0.5 physicians.</li>
  <li>The Ministry of Health and Welfare Taitung Hospital between the years 2012 to 2106: physicians went from 30+ to 10+ with staff turnover in the range of 500 to 600. Refer to: <a href="http://www.cna.com.tw/news/firstnews/201601200345-1.aspx" target="_blank">http://www.cna.com.tw/news/firstnews/201601200345-1.aspx</a>(last browsed: 2016/06/26)</li>
  <li>New Taipei City, Wulai District; Taoyuan City, Fuxing District; Hsinchu County, Wufeng and Jianshi Township; Yilan County, Datung and Nanao Townships; Miaoli County, Taian Township; Taichung City, Heping District; Nantou County, Renaiand Xinyi Townships; Jiayi County, Alishan Township; Kaohsiung City, Nanmasia, Maolin and Taoyuan Districts; Pingtung County, Sandimen, Mudan, Laiyi, Chunri, Taiwu, Shizi, Majia and Wutai Townships; Hualien County, Hsiulin, Zhuoxi and Wanrong Townships; Taitung County, Yanping, Jinfeng, Hairui, Daren and Lanyu Townships.</li>
  <li>Hsinchu County, Guanxi Township; Miaoli County, Nanzhuang and Shitan Townships; Nantou County, Yuchih Township; Pingtung County, Manjhou Township; Taitung County, Chihshang, Guanshan, Luye, Beinan, Changbin, Chenggong, Tungho, Taimah, and Dawu Townships, and Taitung City; Hualien City, and Hualien County, Hsincheng, Jihan, Shoufeng, Fenglin, Guangfu,Fengbin, Ruisui, Yuli and Fuli Townships.</li>
  <li>Refer to Lin Wen-lan: 2014，“Make Culture based on the "Tribe": The Practice of Educating and Cultural Revitalization in Indigenous Tribal Schools.”</li>
  <li>Refer to: “<a href="http://indiginousteachers.blogspot.tw/2013/01/blog-post_15.html" target="_blank">The position of Taiwan's Indigenous Peoples Teachers Association on the Closing Down and Merging of Remotely Located Primary Schools.</a>”</li>
  <li>Refer to Pao Cheng-hao: “<a href="http://goo.gl/CzwOha" target="_blank">Taiwan Needs a Small and Beautiful Indigenous Peoples Integrated University.”</a>
</ol>


